So now that you know this,
we were doing this step-by-step.
But now that you know this, every time
you are starting a new project from now,
you should start thinking about this flow.
Identifier first, and
then we continue with the process.
So the next step is
probably the hardest one in
terms of coding,
that is adding the endpoints for
working with, let me go back here.
We're going to add the endpoints for
web authentication, okay?
So, but it's a lot of code.
So in this case,
I think it's a good idea to maybe copy and
paste this code, and
then we will analyze what's inside, okay?
I wrote this code, so
I know what the code is doing.
But it's a lot of steps, and
some of the steps are kind of obscure,
and at first,
you don't understand what's going on.
So it's simpler if we just
put them in our server and
then we analyze what's going on, okay?
So how many endpoints are we going to add?
Four, why four?
Because we have two per flow,
so we have some kind of spoke,
salute two flow, okay, spoke solute.
So why two?
Because we have, first, registration and
then we have authentication, the login.
And for each flow,
we always have two endpoints.
We have one that is called get options or
options, and
the other one verification,
both are doing the same thing, okay?
So I'm going to take all my registration,
these are the registration endpoints.
So let me take these two first.
We can try registration first and
then we paste the other two.
So I will put them here at the bottom, so
let's say this is going
to be WEBAUTHN ENDPOINT.
Okay, I'm gonna paste first registration,
okay?
And let's try to analyze what's going on,
the first one, registration-options.
We're going to use these endpoint
when we wanna register a new way,
a new login mechanism for that user, okay?
So first,
we do that after we know who the user is.
Somehow, because the user has typed that,
or because it's already logged in,
I don't know, okay?
But we should know first who the user is,
or
how the user is identified in our system.
So that's why I'm receiving the email and
I'm finding that user, okay?
So then we need to create an options
object with some properties that
are defined with these names
in the WEBAUTHN spec, okay?
So rpName, what's RP?
Reliant Party.
We are the Reliant Party, okay?
So this is the name of our website,
of our project.
Then we need a Reliant Party ID
that I think I have it
defined at the top as a constant here,
that tends to be your domain.
So right now, it's localhost.
Of course,
if you deployed it somewhere else,
you should change the Reliant Party ID,
okay?
Make sense?
Let me go back here.
So userID and userName.
userName is the visible identifier, and
the ID is the internal identifier for
that user within my system.
So in our system, it's email and
name in our database.
timeout is how much time we will wait for
the user to finish the operation, okay?
There are a couple of steps,
the attestation, the authentication,
it doesn't matter.
So how much time I'm willing to wait for
getting that authentication.
attestationType, in case you
wanna change this advanced part.
So we will leave that for the advanced
web application workshop later.
So excludeCredentials,
the idea is that we can pass an array of
credentials that we already have
because we are registering a new one.
I don't want the user to have two face
IDs over the same website because it
doesn't make any sense.
So I don't want the user
to register two public and
private keys over the same
kind of authorization.
Make sense?
So that's why we are doing this, but
we still don't understand what we're going
to say, so
you will understand this code in a second.
But basically, for each user,
we will have an array of devices.
So this can be a device, okay, a USB key,
this is a kind of UBECO
compatible USB key.
But it has a button, so that's why,
because I need to interact with it,
when I pull it,
I will show you this in a minute.
This can be another authenticator.
Another device can be my face,
my touch ID.
So I can have more than one per user.
So in terms of data storage,
in terms of data structure,
meaning if you are creating a database,
like a SQL-based database,
the relationship between user and
devices or users authentication
systems is one to one.
So far, we have one user, one password,
so it was just one table.
But here, the user can be authenticated,
the same user, with different mechanisms.
So it's one to one, so
that's why we have an array, okay?
Then authenticatorSelection here,
you can filter which type of
authentication we're accepting.
For example, if userVerification
is required or not, okay?
You can change that.
To be honest, in the real world today,
the real world is actually not the spec.
But what browsers are supporting,
it's not going to change too much
if you say not require, actually.
This is optional, so if you just
remove this, it's gonna work, and
it will take default values by default.
And then I'm accepting
two common algorithm.
This has to do with the keys inside and
the challenge, it doesn't matter.
We typically send those two values, okay?
If you wanna learn more about that,
just take ES 256 and
RS 256, and you will get more
detail about what that means.
But with that,
just take these for granted.
And then we don't take, this is a JSON
object, so it's an object, okay?
We don't send that object
to the client yet.
We need to some kind of wrap it,
some kind of
decorate that object through our library.
So here I'm using
the SimpleWebAuthnServer library, so
we generate registration
options based on my object.
And it's going to return
another object that
it has more properties,
and it has public keys,
signatures, and it has the challenge.
So the server will send
a challenge to the client, okay?
What I'm doing is I'm saving
that challenge in my user.
Why is that?
Because this is two step process, later,
we will verify that the challenge sent by
the browser is actually
the challenge we sent originally.
So this is for verification and
to avoid security issues.
So I'm saving this in my database.
Okay, makes sense?
So this is the first endpoint.
Again this endpoint is
going to be executed.
When the user express with a button,
I wanna have face ID, or
I wanna have web authentication,
or I wanna have the passkey.
In that case, we will trigger
first this call with an email.
Make sense?
Do you have any questions
on this endpoint?
This point?
No, so then I mean,
with this object that we are passing
to the client,
we will request client side to the web
authentication API an authentication,
okay?
Which is register an authentication.
And the browser will give us an answer,
and that answer will come
here to the next endpoint that is
called registration-verification.
We're going here to verify
that everything looks good and
no one has changed the data in the middle,
no man in the middle has added or
changed my information.
So in this case, we will find the user,
and we will take the data
that is sent by the API.
And here, we are going to,
among other things,
verify the challenge,
the expected challenge.
So this is going to check if the data
is exactly what we are expecting, okay?
And if everything is correct, okay?
If verified and
we have all the information,
well, we are creating a new object,
a new device.
Well, first,
we check if the device already exists.
If that's the case, it means that
I already saved that touch ID for
that user on this device, so
I'm not going to save it twice.
So I'm doing nothing, okay?
And if it doesn't exist,
I'm creating the newDevice object,
and saving that to the user.devices array,
okay?
I mean, it looks like a lot of code,
but at the end,
it's not so difficult to follow, okay?
The flow is we are at the beginning.
We start analyzing the flow,
it's kind of, what's going on here, okay?
And then we say, okay, we saved it.
And that finishes
the registration operation.
At least server-side.
Okay, make sense?
Do you have any question so far?
Until we don't add the client cycle,
it will still be kind of weird.
Okay, so that's the registration.
Then we have another pair of
endpoints that actually they
look pretty similar in terms
of the code inside for
authentication, which is actually login,
okay?
So let's say that now the user wants to
log in with face ID or with a USB key.
Okay, so in this case,
we start with something similar.
We create an options object
that will have a challenge.
And then we decorate, we wrap that
object with the WebAuthnServer library.
In this case,
we generateAuthenticationOption and
not generate registration option.
It's a different function, okay?
So internally, there are some differences,
but the whole code looks pretty similar.
So the flows are very similar.
So in that case,
we pass that to the client.
The client will render a dialog, so
the user can show her face or
the user can put his finger.
And then we will verify that
information that we receive is
exactly the same as the one that
we have saved in our database.
So here there are some buffer operations,
because what are we going
to save in our database?
We will see this in action in a second.
But are we going to save the information
about the fingerprint from the user or
the face details?
No, we just save an identifier,
like binary data that
was signed that identifies that face for
my website only.
So the same face from the same user and
the same device but
on a different website,
we have a completely different data.
This is to avoid fingerprinting.
By the way, there are libraries for
web authentication for
all the backend languages, for Go,
for Java, for .NET, for Python.
So no matter the language you have,
there are libraries that will help you
with authentication in the backend, okay?
This is the simplest
libraries I could get and
the one that is more updated for Node.js.